Gave Up Everything… to Get THREE Queens! Chess.m4a
2025-09-17 12:32:18
Saved
In this game you will see almost everything that a chess game can offer: opposite castling of the kings, a mountain of sacrifices, and a wild pawn race. This game was played in 2018 at the World Junior Championship. Two grandmasters were playing: Sergei Lobanov and Johann Christensen. The game begins with e4 from white. Black answers with e6, and after d4, white seizes the center with pawns. Black replies with d5, a counter strike in the center. On the board, the French defense. White develops the knight protecting the pawn on e4. Black increases the pressure on this pawn and white plays e5, driving away the black knight. The knight Retreats to d7 and then comes f4. White, in this game, will play on the kingside, while Black will aim for the queenside as his pawn structure points the way.

Black starts undermining White's pawn chain with c5. White consolidates by developing his kingside knight, and Black continues the pressure with knight c6. White's bishop comes out to e3, reinforcing, and Black develops his bishop to e7, preparing short castling. And what do you think? White plays queen d2, keeping his bishop on f1. He is preparing long castling. a6. Black plays carefully, not castling yet, not revealing his plans for the king. Maybe he will still go long side. the move a6 he also prepares c4 and b5 with a further pawn storm on the queen side. That is why white takes the pawn on c5, preventing c4. Black recaptures with a knight on c5, and white finally castles long, practically inviting black to begin his attack on the queen side.

Black's queen jumps to a5, and white tucks his king on b1, strengthening the pawn on a2 if necessary and also moving away from the semi-open c file. Black pushes forward with b5. The pawn advances. White plays knight d4, offering black to exchange a pair of knights and slightly cool down his attack. White also cannot so easily start his own attack on the king side since the black king is still in the center. Black's bishop comes out to b7, supporting the knight on c6, and white begins his pawn advance on the king side. He intends to push the pawn all the way forward. Black brings the rook to the half open c file. White continues the pawn advance, and black decides to retreat his queen to c7.

The best, of course, would have been to exchange and start his own push with b4, but black probably thought that something could hit him on the king side in that case, and the queen on the seventh rank will also play an important role in defense. White trades knights on c6, and after the bishop recaptures on c6, he transfers. his knight to e2. It heads for the square d4, a blockade square; but by moving his knight away, white lost control over the e4 square. Black takes advantage of this, jumping with his knight to e4 and attacking the queen, which steps back to e1. Black's queen and rook begin to look dangerously at the pawn on c2, which is not well protected. The bishop retreats to b7, opening the c file.

A threat is created. White plays knight d4, defending this pawn; and after bishop c5, black tries to eliminate the defender of the c2 pawn. White brings another piece into the game, developing his last minor piece. White's bishop clings tightly to the c2 pawn. and black castles. He believes that he has enough counterplay on the queen side where white's king is located. White's knight goes to f3, offering an exchange of dark squared bishops. Black does not refuse this but attacks the bishop on e3 in the process. The bishop captures on c5, and the queen moves to c5. Black's queen now looks very threatening in the center, and white does not want to exchange it. White plays a6, starting his attack on the king side.

g6, almost the only move for black, but the dark squares around his king become weakened, and immediately the queen jumps to h4. For now, white's queen cannot come straight in and deliver. mate to the black king because the knight on e4 covers the f6 square. But with the next move, white threatens to capture that knight and invade with the queen, delivering mate on the dark squares. For black, finding a move that would protect against this threat of queen f6 after the capture is not so simple. But such a move existed. In this position, black needed to play queen f2. Such a quiet move, but almost forcing the exchange of yes, of course, for example, after queen f2, white could retreat the queen to e7, but black could then try to force a draw in this way, attacking the queen again and on the only retreat of the queen avoiding the.

exchange Queen h4 again queen f2. In this way, the game could have ended with repetition. If white's queen captured the bishop on b7, then it would simply get trapped inside this black construction. On queen d7, rook d8, and if, for example, the pawn is taken here, the queen still cannot escape this. But after queen h4, black missed the move queen f2, and he plays f5, thus preparing to bring his queen or rook along the seventh rank to defend his king if needed. En passant follows; white captures on f6, and black does not take this pawn on f6, but plays d4 opening his light-squared bishop. Now, after any capture, he can safely take on e4 with the bishop. and put pressure on white's c2 pawn.

White responds with knight e5, centralizing the knight, and now all the most interesting things in this game begin. So with the move knight e5, white threatens f7 and then to invade with the queen, giving mate on g7. For example, if rook c7 is played to defend, then comes f7, and here black would have to give up the exchange. With such a king and the pawn on a6, black would not survive for long, so he urgently decides to eliminate this pawn with knight f6. And it seems that black is holding, but then comes bishop g6. White sacrifices the first piece. Capturing this bishop is obviously bad. Then follows h7 and after the king retreats to h8, the knight takes on g6 with check. After the capture on f8, white promotes another queen and wins a lot. That is why black's queen joins the defense, moving to e7 and reinforcing the seventh rank, and white's bishop calmly returns to d3, opening the g file against the black king. Black plays very cautiously, stepping back with his king to h8. Of course, capturing the pawn on g2 was impossible. Then the rook would join on the g file and the bishop on g2 would be lost.

Black brings his queen to c7 to create threats on the queen side; for example, to exchange the light squared bishops. White plays g3, a slightly slow move reinforcing the pawn on f4 and taking it out of the bishop's. But of course, g4 would have been stronger, more energetic. The position called for it. Black's knight jumps to d5 and joins the counterattack on the queenside, putting pressure on the c2 pawn. White plays rook d2, strengthening the c2 pawn in advance. Queen a5, now the rook on d2 is under attack, so the rook steps back to e2. Black plays rook c7. The rook will now perform the function of the queen on the 7th. It is also possible to double along the c-file. White urgently needs to continue his attack; otherwise, black will manage to unwind on the queenside.

And the move f5. follows a magnificent move, opening the queen along the 4th. The pawn on d4 is hanging. If it falls and the queen lands on d4, it will mean death for the black king. Queen b4; the queen protects the pawn on d4 and also begins to threaten checks with the knight on c3. White plays a3, trying to drive this queen away from defending the critical pawn. But black strikes with knight c3 check, a fork on the king and rook. The king retreats to a1, and the black queen again hovers on b4. Now, the queen moves to d6, and the knight on d5 no longer blocks its defense of the pawn on d4. And the knight is also ready to capture the rook on e2. Then comes the sacrifice.

of another piece on g6, Knight g6 check. Black did not want to refuse this sacrifice because then, for example, after the only retreat, king g8 follows the capture on f8. White would still have the exchange up. The rook would then join by taking on e6 and white's terrifying pawns would begin their march forward. So if there is suffering, let it be for material. Black captures the knight on g6 and after the pawn recaptures, white immediately threatens g7 check, winning the rook. King g8 stepping away from the fork, but g7 follows anyway. Black does not move his rook from f8, but captures the rook on e2 instead. White's rook on g1 is now hanging. but white continues to surprise his opponent with queen g5, supporting the pawn on g7.

He does not even look at the rook on f8 and also leaves his rook on g1 under attack. All material is placed on the altar of secures the pawn on g7 and threatens to push h7. The pawn on h7 will be supported by the bishop, while the pawn on g7 is protected by the Black, having no real alternatives, captures the rook on g1. We now reach a position where white has a bishop, a queen, and two terrifying pawns against two rooks, a queen, and two minor pieces for black. Of course, black would gladly give half of his army for the kind of activity white has in this position. And now comes the finishing combination h7, with the only retreat for the king being f7, and white's pawns finally reach their long-awaited goal: promotion to queens.

Promotion to a queen on g8 follows. Capturing this queen with the rook is impossible. After the capture, white promotes another queen on g8, giving a beautiful checkmate to the black king. So, the black king steps aside from the check to e8, and it seems that everything is still fine for black. But then white promotes another queen on h8, and now he has three queens on the board. White, after sacrificing almost all of his pieces, suddenly gets two brand new queens fresh from. the showroom. Naturally, black resigns in this position. Even if he captures one of white's queens after the king retreats to d7, follows a beautiful mating pattern: King c6, bishop e4, and after the only retreat to b6, the black queen is lost. The capture on d6 follows, and the black king perishes in a mating attack. He will be checkmated here. As for me, this is one of the most beautiful and, most importantly, principled attacking games. Thank you for watching. If you want to support the channel, the link is in the description. There, I post exclusive videos. Give a like to this video, subscribe to the channel if you enjoyed this game. See you soon.