Is Magnus Even HUMAN?? Crushes Super GM w/ Jawdropping Triple Rook Sac!.m4a
2025-09-17 12:26:14
Saved
Today's game is one that I can say with absolute confidence is the most incredible sacrificial masterpiece that I've ever covered on this channel, between the greatest chess GOAT of all time— pardon my redundancy— Magnus Carlsen and a world-class grandmaster with a FIDE rating of 2696. And it's a game that you're going to remember for a long time as being the one that melted your face clean off, or at least blew your hair back. I mean, just look what it did to me! Before today, I had a full head of witnessing the fallout from Magnus Carlsen's three nuclear sacrifices of his rook in this round 8 encounter from the 2021 FIDE World Cup. was much more than my fragile noggin could handle. You're going to love it despite the disfiguring effect it has on you.

But enough hype; this game doesn't need it. Magnus Carlsen is at the helm with the white pieces, and he opens with the most powerful move known to man: E4. Because this guy said so, SuperGM opponent Vladimir Fedoseev responds C6, the Wrath of Khan opening, more commonly known as the Karo-Khan opening. Magnus takes the center because he can. Vladimir does the same with D5, the mainline move, taking a little nibble at E4. We now get E5, known as the advance variation. Vladimir continues with the very strong, yet cliched. Bishop to F5, getting the light-squared bishop developed so that E6 can be played next without blocking it in. We now get a relatively unusual move from Magnus: C4. Nothing inherently wrong with it, though it could be viewed as a bit of a premature commitment.

Most strong players prefer to develop their kingside with moves like knight to F3 and bishop to E2 before deciding where to put that C pawn, which most often ends up on C3 to support the pawn on D4. But this seems to be playable, as is pretty much any opening that's being played by Magnus Carlsen. We have E6, activating the dark-haired bishop, knight to C3, developing the knight. to C3 and now bishop to B4, pinning that steed to the king. Magnus doesn't mind; he decides to capture on D5, posing an interesting positional question: how should black recapture? What would you play in this position? If you said C takes D5, then congratulations, you've chosen the top engine move, preserving the two central pawns.

But if you said QxD5, the move played by Vladimir, I can't say that I blame you, unless I want to be a total hypocrite, because that's what I probably would have played, as it lands white with this here backward pawn on an open file. Not traditionally known to be a good thing. However, as we're about to see, this doesn't turn out to be much of a always important to remember that unless a weakness can be actively exploited, then it never really was a Magnus continues with the strongest move on the board: knight to E2, backing up his knight, signaling his intention to meet any BxC3 with NxC3, which would threaten to win the black queen, as the knight would no longer be pinned to the king.

Vladimir can see what's going on, so he decides to take a move to get his queen out of dodge with Qd8; not the most active square for her highness, or the most engine approved. It liked Qa5 a bit better, but Vladimir wants to reserve that square for his bishop in anticipation. of Magnus Carlsen's next move a3, to which he responds Bxa5, a move that's only possible because he retreated his queen. Since if his queen were still sitting on D5, then white could win material with B4, attacking the bishop, breaking the pin on his knight, and so also threatening to win the black queen. So to me, this looks like a pretty nice position for black. He's preserved his bishop pair; he's got the D7 and E7 squares available for the development of his knights, which is why he didn't retreat his queen or his bishop to either of those squares.

So why exactly the engine is giving an evaluation of over 6 tenths of a pawn in white's favor here I couldn't rightly tell you. But let's see if the mighty Magnus can shed some light on the situation. He continues Ng3, giving a little tickle to the bishop, which Vladimir leaves right where it is and plays Ne7. Might seem a bit strange. Did we not decide that he wants to hang on to that bishop pair? Well, yes we did, but if Magnus were to take that bishop on F5, then after NxF5, how is one as white to hang on to one's now twice attacked pawn on D4 without putting one's own bishop on the chopping block with Bxe3? The answer is one is not.

And this would allow black a very nice sequence of moves that you'll see many a beginner fall prey. to Nxe3, Fxe3 and Qh4, after which white's either going to have to move his king forever, losing the right to castle, or he can play G3; but then comes Qe4, attacking both rook and undefended pawn on E3. The queen, of course, cannot be captured as the knight is still pinned to the king, and white is terminally hosed. So, always be on the lookout for these early queen checks from the rim of the board, as they can mess you up pretty fast. What's played in the game in response to Nxe7 is not the amateurish NxF5, but rather Bc4, getting another eyeball in the center with that cycloptic bishop.

Which brings us to our first major error of the game. What Would you play here as black? The best move not played in the game is going to be C5, just allowing white to rid himself of his backward pawn on D4. Not the most intuitive thing one could play, but if white were to take on C5, then black could take the knight on C3, inflicting upon white a terrible queenside pawn structure. Then he can trade queens and start going after that unsavable pawn on C5 with moves like Nd7, Rc8, or even with the king in some lines. A better line for white would be NxF5, NxF5, D5, ExD5, BxD5, Nc6, castles, and castles with approximate equality. Maybe still a little edge for white.

Let's contrast this to what was played in the game after Magnus puts his bishop on C4, which is Bg6. Looks pretty reasonable. Vladimir has correctly concluded that, at some point in the near future, it would actually behoove white to capture that bishop if it stayed on F5. But this allows Magnus to seize what is known as the initiative, with a series of fairly forcing moves beginning with H4, threatening H5, forcing that bishop right back to F5. Now black could play H5 himself, but this would relinquish control of the G5 square upon which a white piece could prove quite troublesome. So we have a better move: H6, guarding G5 with a pawn. But this allows Magnus to play H5, giving another prod to the bishop.

He would, of course, love to just castle, but I think most of you know what's wrong with that, and if you don't, you're going to want to take heed and remember the move Bxh6, a very common tactical theme exploiting the pin on black's g pawn to his king when it's pretty much game over. So, it seems that if black is going to defend his pawn, he's either going to have to do it with Rg8 or the move played in the game Kf8. But what he should actually do is neither. His best move, and the only good one, is Bf5, attacking the queen. Now, if NxB, then there's NxN and the pawn is And if Qxg7 in this position, then black can play Rh7 when All of a sudden, things are looking pretty trappy for the white queen, who can really only go to f6.

But now comes Qxd4, threatening both QxB on c4 and Bxc3, followed by a nasty fork of king and rook, and white is completely busted. Now let's have a look at the move Vladimir tries, which in this position is the overly defensive Kf8, forever giving up the right to castle, which is what Magnus does now, bringing us to a position where, after making only 13 moves, the great Vladimir Fedoseev has got himself into a dead lost position evaluated as being over two pawns in white's favor by the almighty engine. Apparently, he thinks his king will be reasonably safe on f8 but even if it is, how is he ever going to get this rook into the game? It's not going to be so easy and spoiler alert, that rook actually doesn't move for the entire rest of the game.

Play continues Nd7. Magnus puts a knight on e4, threatening to drop it into d6. We have Bc7 guarding that square, Ba2 getting out of the way of any Nb6, which would also uncover an attack on the undefended d4 pawn. Next is Nf5, attacking d4. Knight takes knight, bishop takes knight attacking, the it goes to f3. We have Qe7 supporting an imminent c5. Ng3 hitting the bishop, it retreats to h7 and now comes Qg4, whose sole purpose it seems is to unblock. the f pawn which Magnus is about to begin thrusting in the direction of the black king. Very textbook attacking stuff, Vladimir says. That's okay, I'll just strike over here on the queenside with c5. But Magnus has a very nice response ready: Bd2, ready to meet any cxd4 nonsense with Bb4, pinning queen to king.

Now black could throw his knight in the way, but after Rc1, things are going to get real awkward, real quick. So Vladimir plays a better move, though ultimately no less losing: Rd8. And after a very predictable f4 from Magnus, we have Nb6, opening the rook's eyes to the center, threatening Rxd4, which would attack the bishop on d2 while also hindering Magnus from pushing his f-pawn further by pinning it to his queen. The replied Bc3 preventing Rxd4. Cxd4 would still fail to Bb4, pinning the queen to the king, so we instead have Nd5, threatening to come into e3. Now, Magnus could just play Bxd5 followed by f5 with a totally winning position, but he's way too cool for that in a position like this, where he has correctly determined that he can get away with an immediate f5, just allowing Vladimir to drop his steed into e3,

attacking both rook and Magnus puts his queen on f3, at which point Vladimir decides not to accept the sacrificed exchange with Nxf1, seeing that After Rxf1, Fxe6 would be a very serious threat due to the resulting pin on black's f-pawn, which could not recapture, so black would really need to move his. If Kg8, then Fxe6 followed by Qg4, ganging up on the e6 pawn would be very nasty. Recommended by the engine is Ke8, Fxe6, Fxe6, Bc4, threatening Bb5 check. a6, preventing that Qxb7, and with a6 about to fall, next black, with his still centrally stranded king, is not going to survive very long. What's tried in the game instead of accepting the sacrificed exchange is Nxf5. Seems pretty sensible, black no longer has any Fxe6 to worry about, but his problems are far from over as Magnus now demonstrates.

with surgical precision, beginning with Nxf5. The bishop recaptures, and what do you think he plays next? 35 points to you if you can spot it in 3 seconds or less. The move is d5, one of my favorite little tactical motifs. Black, of course, cannot take the pawn or it's bye-bye bishop on f5. d6 is now a threat, forking bishop and queen; hence, Vladimir's reply Bb6, threatening an unpleasantry of his own. Now with c4, discovered check. When, if the king were to flee to the east, then there would follow Qh4 with check, forcing white to part with his. Magnus wants no part of that; he puts his bishop on c4, fixing that c5 pawn. We have Kg8. The engine is not impressed.

It liked Qh4 instead attacking the bishop on c4, but this is a very human thing to try: eliminating any potential pin on the f7 pawn, while also enabling a possible Kh7 so that black can finally connect his rooks. Magnus pushes his pawn to d6, achieving the dreaded protected passer with tempo on the black queen. We have Qh4 hitting the bishop, b3 defending, Rd7 defending against Qxb7, at which point Magnus plays a move that looks a tad pointless on the surface: Qe2. What's the thinking here? Well, Magnus is anticipating that Vladimir might now go after his pawn on h5. The best way to do it is with Bg4, but Vladimir takes the bait and plays Qg4. leaving Magnus with no way to both save his pawn on h5 and avoid the trade of. But with this move Qe2, Magnus has cleared the way for an absolutely astounding move. It's very deep, and we're probably not going to fully understand all of its intricacies. You might already have an idea what it is, but if you don't, go ahead and take a guess. It is the top engine move, a bonafide bolt from the blue: Rxf5, once again offering the exchange along with an invitation to trade queens with Qxe2.

You can't defend f5 with g6 as long as the king is on g8, since after h takes g6, the pinned pawn on f7 is not able to recapture. If you move the king, then g6 would still run into trouble after e6 with a discovered attack on the So, just a little sampler of the kinds of problems black is facing, and as usual, there's a whole lot more we could talk about. But we do need to press on to what's tried in the game: queen takes f5, keeping that c4 bishop's diagonal good and blunted, and the black pawn structure nice and healthy. Of course, this does allow Magnus to get his rook into the action with rook to f1, with tempo on the black queen who doesn't have a lot of Vladimir tries to stay active with queen to g5, but now we get the clergyman coming in to d2, hitting the queen again.

If queen to h4 or queen to g3, then white can play rook to f4, followed by rook to g4, depriving the black queen of all her kingside squares. So, Vladimir decides he better hit the road with queen to d8, plays queen to g4, and what do you think the plan is here? Maybe rook to f3, then rook to g3, targeting g7. Well, that would be a solid expert-level plan, maybe even a master plan, but what Magnus has in mind is a GOAT-level plan and one that even the great Vladimir Fedoseev is apparently totally unaware of as he plays a6, with the apparent plan of moving his bishop at some point and then expanding with b5. This now allows Magnus to detonate the most devastating thermonuclear move of this entire game and it's one of the most powerful he's ever played.

pause the video if you have no clue what it is or even if you think you know but you want to try to figure out exactly why it works. Here it comes with global extinction level impact force. rook takes f7, his final and most destructive rook sacrifice. Ok, first things first, checkmate is now threatened on g7. if you try to defend with rook to h7, then there's just Qxe6, setting up the discovered check and everything just. So Black really needs to take the rook. he's only got two ways to do it. what's played in the game is Kxf7, but let's take a quick peek at Rxf7 just so you can see the beauty and depth of what Magnus has calculated here.

After Qxe6 threatening to win the pinned rook and Qf8 defending, there comes d7 with the discovered attack on Black's bishop. And after let's say Bd8, we have Qe8 once again threatening to win the rook with Bxf7 check, since Black's queen is pinned and may not recapture. Qxe8 would of course allow White to replace his queen with another queen, with checkmate coming in another few moves. So what to do? Well, there's nothing to do. Black is going to lose that. The engine's recommending Kh7 so that Bxf7 doesn't come with check, but it does come with the threat of checkmate in. 3 with Bg6 check driving the king back to g8, followed by Qe6 check and mate on the next move. So, unless you want to sack your queen, you gotta give the king a square with something like g6.

But after Hxg6 check, Kg7, and Bc3, Black's got no way to prevent d6 with a deadly discovery, and according to the engine, checkmate in another 15 moves. Now, let's look at what was tried in the game: Kxf7, and see if this is any after Magnus' reply, Qxe6 check. Now, fun fact, it was a bit better to take with the bishop for some very engine-y reasons that we don't really care about because this is totally crushing as well. Vladimir wisely puts his king on f8, staying. compliant with the rules of the game. Magnus plays Qf5 check, driving the king back to e8. We now have a little back and forth with Qg6 check, Kf8, Qf5 check, Ke8, Qg6 check, Kf8. Does Magnus think that he's got nothing better than a draw here?

Negative! He's just trying to get past move 40, at which point he gets 30 minutes added to his clock, as this is one of those old-fashioned classical games. So now that we're at move 42, he's got himself plenty of time to figure out the most efficient way to put this super GM out of his misery, and he decides that the way to do it is with the move e6, attacking the rook on d7, which has no way to escape seeing that. Rxd6 would allow Qf7 checkmate. Vladimir says, " Fine, take my rook; let's at least get those queens off the board as he plays Qf6. But Magnus can see that his position is so good that he doesn't even need his queen anymore.

He goes ahead and takes the rook on d7, allowing Qxg6, seeing that after Hxg6, black is left in a beautiful state of total kingside paralysis. How is he ever going to get this rook into the game? His king has no moves. You could try pushing the h pawn to free the rook that way, but that would allow Bg5, threatening Be7 checkmate, which black could only delay by one move with Bd8, sacrificing his. So Vladimir, apparently aware. of this problem puts his bishop on d8 first. Magnus plays Be6; he knows what's coming next: h5. We have Kf2, h4. Is the rook about to escape its prison via the h5 square? Magnus says, I think not, with Bg4. That rook ain't going nowhere, even if black tries sacking a pawn on h3 since after Gxh3 there's still no way out.

So we have B5. Black's really got nothing better to do. Magnus continues Kf3. We have B4 from Vladimir, offering Magnus a pawn, but after Axb4 and Cxb4, he doesn't even bother waiting for Magnus' response and, in this position, decides to resign the game. Maybe he was originally hoping that Magnus would play Bxb4, allowing him to play. Rh6 hitting g6 and after Bf5 defending, he might actually be able to get away with sacrificing a pawn on h3 in order to activate his rook. It wouldn't have saved his game or anything, but Vladimir probably realized that Magnus would never allow such a complication when he could instead just march his king to f5, play Bg5, and then force the promotion of his pawn on d7. So, what did you think? Did that not eradicate any lingering doubt in your mind that Magnus Carlsen is something other than human?

And I will see you next time.